Hello, this is the 26th episode of the week review
You are 320,000 subscribers on this channel. You are my freedom
It's a means for me to express myself without being interrupted at every turn
to develop a thought  in more than a hundred and forty characters
With all of what a reasoning contains, that is
Arguments, counter-arguments, answers to questions we sometimes ask to ourselves
They are often, the most difficult ones to solve
So, let's go. Opening !
So, I will obviously speak of Presidential Election
because it is a national event,
international, I received message from all over the world
and also because we were really direct actors
You, who listen to me and me who speaks to you
the evening had a strange taste
I'll explain why
All along the day we had phone calls, from friends, saying
"what's happenning? We have been removed from electoral lists"
It created a strange atmosphere
Moreover, the weekbefore, we learnt that 500k people were registered twice
This is a rather special atmosphere
we are not used to that, in such an developped country
To seeing a mess like that in the organisation of electoral lists
so it creates an atmosphere a bit unwholesome
As far as the week-end was getting close, it became a banania republic
On public services (tv channel), there was a big report, the morning on the repression in Venezuela
And on an private tv channel,
I saw there was a long interview of a biography of Mr Macron
And it explained, how was the guy, if he had grown well
It's not a good atmosphere, France is not used to be like that
It is more respectful, of the intermission/silence
everybody makes an effort to respect the rule,
here apparently, the rule....
The afternoon, the research institutes, friendly called me, "It's really tight, there is no way to really know"
But at 8p.m., pof, everybody seemed to know
With two packages, with an enough big step, in order to make no ambiguity
But me, in this atmosphere, I chose to wait for
the results from the Home Office
because it was a ridiculous in a way
First you had all the old people, rush up to TV shows
some of whom we didn't even remember were still alive
And there they were explaining, giving advice on everything
especially on what WE have to do
then
despite everything
I did know it was a tantrum
and at the end we did well because it was really close
we were laking 620k voters
to reach the second round
because for the second rank, the first three did around 7 million votes
7 619 000 for Le Pen
7 200 000 for Fillon
7 060 000 for me
so as you can see
it was really close
so we did well to take our time and not to congrat the winner
Nevertheless, we lost!
that is to say, we not qualified for second round
Maybe the shock was harder for us than the other
because we felt we could do it!
we felt with strength
and one of the harbingers seen the lweek before
was the frenzy against me
ALBA, whatever, Venezuela, whatever, Russia
they were looking for anything they had in stock
to bring it back, but in reality , last week
they didn't fight against Le Pen, they did against ME
So, we felt that if they were that nervous, it was because we were really close
What was the influence of this frenzy? I don't know!
Whatever, for 620k vote
there will be no increase of the minimum wage
no 6th Republic
no referendum revocatory
no end to nuclear energy
There'll be no 100% renewable energy
There'll be no free organic canteen for children
And there'll be none of the propositions for peace.
For sure, it let a sour taste
and we have the right to be disappointed
but mostly
what's the situation we are in?
everybody is in the fix
and urged to accept the only choice
and, don't be afraid, it is highly predicted that choice
to the point that this is not a choice anymore
so it's an extremely nervous situation given the violence that is done to most of us
And,
from this violence, no stable situation can emerge
because the deep nature of the two actors of the second round
forbid that stability
First because he's far-markets
the other because she's far-right
but I let that topic for later on
because, that all, can't make us forget the magnitude of the success, we won
and for sure it is not done for 620k votes, but please, 38 departments
choose us for 2 second round
and, in, a lot of big French cities
we did results that rank us at the forefront
and cities from any political side of the fence concerning the mayors
it's not reserved to one specific category
We are first in Montpellier
And the mayor is Socialist
Lille, Socialist mayor
Montpellier 31.5%
Lille 29.9%
Le Havre, right-wing mayor, 29.8%
Ahead!
Toulouse, center mayor, 29.2%
Grenoble, the mayor, a friend of ours!
who voted for me, 28.9%
I stop with the political side, Avignon 28% ahead, Saint-Etienne 25% ahead,
MARSEILLE
25% ahead!
Nîmes 24%
And cities, in Paris suburbs
one is the record, I believe,
Gennevillier 47%
Courneuve 44%
it amused me that we are ahead in Every
eh, it's to say, it happens to anybody, even Mr Valls, to look at me, in front of him
Roubaix, Tourcoing,
And there are cities where - without being first -
we are still really high
really high
For exemples, Rennes 26%
Nante 25%
Amiens 25%
Besancon 25%
Clermont-ferrand 25%
Strasbourg 24%
Bordeaux 23%
Limoges 23%
Lyon 23%
Le Mans 22%
Dunkerque 22%
You see, it is extraordinary
It has been the steepest increase since 2012
And hum, for us it's not only the steepest increase
and being first in so many cities
Thus we reduced the gap with Mrs Lepen, in a spectacular way
We progressed of 75%, since 2012
and we shrank the gap with her because she progressed less fast than us.
And you can see that, since beginning
The aim has been the reconquest of the people's confidence (low and middle classes)
they are the goal
Our politics, our program, is not for people who have big cars, yatch, big wallets
It is for brave and humble people
who just want to live decently with their wages or their pension
so it is heartbreaking for us
when she succeed in convincing them, sometimes she dissembles, dress up like us, and moves like us
she tries to do the Mélenchon, she says "this way we will dupe people"
But she's not the first to do that, Hollande did that too.
He said I will implement a 75% tax, but he didn't even remember what he wanted to tax...
Anyway, it enabled him to attract some voters.
And he said "Finance is my enemy! I will renegotiate European treaties!"
You remember all that right?
So it's not the first time that we are confronted with lies.